# Papers
Here we have collected all scientific publications that relates to creating an AI for Blood Bowl. 

## [Blood Bowl: The Next Board Game Challenge for AI (2018)](https://njustesen.github.io/njustesen/publications/justesen2018blood.pdf)
We propose the popular board game Blood Bowl as a new challenge for Artificial Intelligence (AI). Blood Bowl is a fully-observable, stochastic, turn-based, modern-style board game with a grid-based playing board. At first sight, the game ought to be approachable by numerous game-playing algorithms. However, as all pieces on the board belonging to a player can be moved several times each turn, the turn-wise branching factor becomes overwhelming for traditional algorithms. Additionally, scoring points in the game is rare and difficult, which makes it hard to design heuristics for search algorithms or apply reinforcement learning. We present our work in progress on a game engine that implements the core rules of Blood Bowl with a forward model and a reinforcement learning interface. We plan to release the engine as open source and use it to facilitate future AI competitions.

## [Blood Bowl: A New Board Game Challenge and Competition for AI (2019)](https://njustesen.github.io/njustesen/publications/justesen2019blood.pdf)
We propose the popular board game Blood Bowl as a new challenge for Artificial Intelligence (AI). Blood Bowl is a fully-observable, stochastic, turn-based, modern-style board game with a grid-based game board. At first sight, the game ought to be approachable by numerous game-playing algorithms. However, as all pieces on the board belonging to a player can be moved several times each turn, the turn-wise branching factor becomes overwhelming for traditional algorithms. Additionally, scoring points in the game is rare and difficult, which makes it hard to design heuristics for search algorithms or apply reinforcement learning. We present the Fantasy Football AI (botbowl) framework that implements the core rules of Blood Bowl and includes a forward model, several OpenAI Gym environments for reinforcement learning, competition functionalities, and a web application that allows for human play. We also present Bot Bowl I, the first AI competition that will use botbowl along with baseline agents and preliminary reinforcement learning results. Additionally, we present a wealth of opportunities for future AI competitions based on botbowl.

## [MimicBot: Combining Imitation and Reinforcement Learning to win in Bot Bowl (2021)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.09478)
This paper describe an hybrid agent trained to play in Fantasy Football AI which participated in the Bot Bowl III competition. The agent, MimicBot, is implemented using a specifically designed deep policy network and trained using a combination of imitation and reinforcement learning. Previous attempts in using a reinforcement learning approach in such context failed for a number of reasons, e.g. due to the intrinsic randomness in the environment and the large and uneven number of actions available, with a curriculum learning approach failing to consistently beat a randomly paying agent. Currently no machine learning approach can beat a scripted bot which makes use of the domain knowledge on the game. Our solution, thanks to an imitation learning and a hybrid decision-making process, consistently beat such scripted agents. Moreover we shed lights on how to more efficiently train in a reinforcement learning setting while drastically increasing sample efficiency. MimicBot is the winner of the Bot Bowl III competition, and it is currently the state-of-the-art solution.
